If the Republicans want to pursue their domestic agenda, they’re going to have to frighten people. The Republicans understood very well that they can’t possibly win the elections if the issues are those that concern people, socio-economic issues basically, and the reason is they’re cutting everybody’s throat and they’ll get smashed if that’s the issue. They were able to stay in office by frightening people and that’s what they did, it was necessary to frighten people into believing there is a threat to their security. In that case they’ll rally around the strong leader, the brave cowboy, and they’ll suppress their concerns over things like where’s my job, or what’s happening to my pension, or how am I gonna take care of my elderly mother, and so on and so forth. If they’re voting on those issues the administration doesn’t have a chance. People in the united states are genuinely frightened. “Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists.” 
And they did, starting in September there was a drum beat of propaganda about several things. First that Sadam Hussein is an imminent threat to our survival. Another was the constant insinuation that he was behind the September 11th attacks and that they were planning new ones. This was a spectacularly successful government media propaganda campaign, you can see it by looking at the polls by end of September and since, around 60% of the population believes that 
Sadam Hussein is a imminent threat to us security and survival. By now over a majority think that Iraq was behind September 11th and is planning new things; that Iraqis were on the planes. If you go back before that it was 3% and the whole idea is totally outlandish. These attitudes are very highly correlated with support for war, and it’s understandable, if I believed those things I’d be in support for the war too. If you think that Sadam Hussein is an imminent threat to your existence, that he carried out the September 11th attacks, that he’s powerful enough to carry out new ones, that’s and argument for war. This is unique to the United States, no one else believes any of this. 

¾ of americans had absolutely no idea whatsoever 

The world is more concerned about the unbridled use of US power than it is about the threat posed by Sadam Hussein, which is an understatement because in fact the world was not concerned about the threat posed by Sadam Hussein because they didn’t see any threat. Even his neighbors despise him but are not afraid of him. 

The press understands that it is much better that citizens to not know about this. 
One of the was they kept the country terrified throughout the 1980’s was to conjure up an air base in Grenada, which the Russians were gonna use to bomb us. Fortunately, our brave cowboy leader saved us in the nick of time. Sent 6000 special forces who managed to overcome the resistance of a couple dozen Cuban military workers with pistols and and actually got 8000 medals of honor for it and we were standing tall after that if you remember. So we were saved, but for a while it looked like the Russians were gonna bomb us from Grenada, assuming they could find it on a map somewhere. Well suppose they found it. And they had bombers there, and the bombers in Grenada were doing just what we were told they were gonna do, everyone was supposed to be shivering, they were coming across the Caribbean to bomb Florida. Ok, if at that point the US sent out planes to shoot down the bombers before they destroyed us that would be legitimate under article 51 of the UN charter, that’s preemptive war. This is something totally different, this is a doctrine that says we will attack anyone who we regard as a potential challenge. Nothing preemptive about that. Sometimes it’s called preventive war but that’s not right either, it’s not preventing anything, the only thing it’s preventing is a potential challenge that the US government invents or claims to be a challenge. So that’s just an open license to go to war with anybody. Destroy anybody, which we can do because we have overwhelming power, that’s the way it’s understood. And that doesn’t make people comfortable. It caused a wave of hatred and fear. This is the most feared and hated political leadership, maybe in history, it’s hard to think of another.
